Cached Credential Storage
and Retrieval
To lay the foundation for cached
storage credential attacks,
we must first look at the
various password hashes
used with Kerberos and
how they are stored.
Since Microsoft’s implementation of
Kerberos makes use of single sign-on,
password hashes must be stored somewhere
in order to renew a TGT request.
In current versions of Windows,
these hashes are stored in the
Local Security Authority Subsystem
Service memory space.
If we can get hold of these hashes,
we could crack them to
find the cleartext password
or reuse them to perform
various actions.
Although this is the end
goal of our AD attack,
the process is not as
straight-forward as it sounds.
Since the LSASS process is part of the
operating system and runs as SYSTEM,
we need SYSTEM, or local administrator
permissions to gain access to the hashes.
Because of this we often have to start our
attack with a local privilege escalation.
To makes things even more difficult,
the data structures used to store
the hashes in memory are not
publicly documented
and they are also encrypted
with an LSASS-stored key.
Nevertheless, since this is a
huge attack vector against Windows
and Active Directory, several tools
have been created to extract the hashes,
the most popular of which is Mimikatz.
Let’s try to use Mimikatz to extract hashes
on our Windows 10 system.
Since the Offsec domain user
is a local administrator,
we are able to launch a command
prompt with elevated privileges.
From this command prompt,
we will run mimikatz,
and engage the SeDebugPrivlege
privilege with privilege::debug,
which will allow us to interact with
a process owned by another account.
Finally, we’ll dump the credentials of all
logged-on users using the Sekurlsa module.
This dumps hashes for all users logged on
to the current workstation or server,
including remote logins like
Remote Desktop sessions.
The output shows all credential
information stored in LSASS
for the domain user Offsec,
including cached hashes.
Notice that we have two types
of hashes in the output.
This will vary based on the functional
level of the AD implementation.
For AD instances at a functional
level of Windows 2003,
NTLM is the only available
hashing algorithm.
For instances running Windows
Server 2008 or later,
both NTLM and SHA-1 may be available.
Armed with these hashes, we
could attempt to crack them
and obtain the cleartext password.
A different approach using Mimikatz
is to exploit Kerberos authentication
by abusing TGT and service tickets.
We know Kerberos TGT and service
tickets for users currently
logged on to the local machine
are stored for future use.
These tickets are also stored
in LSASS and we can use Mimikatz
to interact with and retrieve
our own tickets
and the tickets of other local users.
For example, let’s use Mimikatz
to show the Offsec user’s tickets
that are stored in memory:
The output shows both a TGT…
and a TGS.
Stealing a TGS would allow us
to access only specific
resources associated with those tickets.
On the other hand, armed with a
TGT ticket, we could request a TGS
for specific resources we want
to target within the domain.
In addition to these functions, Mimikatz
can export tickets to the hard drive
and import tickets into LSASS.
Mimikatz can even extract
information related to authentication
performed through smart card and PIN,
making this tool a real cached
credential “swiss army knife”!